>> Nina Zakharenko: So we've been
working in the REPL this whole time, and
the REPL is this incredibly useful,
powerful tool.
But sometimes we wanna save
our Python code, right?
We wanna run it again and again,
we wanna save it into a project.
We're gonna make files
with the .py extension and
then we're gonna see how to run them.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
just like variables in Python,
>> Nina Zakharenko: The convention for
naming your files is with all
lowercase and underscore.
We're gonna run our Python files from
VS Code, so let's create a new file.
On Mac that's Cmd+N,
on Windows it's Ctrl+N.
And we're going to put a little
bit of code in this file.
We're gonna say, we have a few greetings.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
we're gonna loop over these greetings.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Oops, okay, so
you might be looking at this and
saying, using an ID,
you promised me syntax highlighting,
you promised me linting and
error checking.
This looks just like the REPL,
where is it, right?
So the key here is we need to save
our file with the Python extension so
that VS Code knows that
it's a Python file.
So I'll give you just a minute
to finish typing this in.
And then I'm gonna go ahead and
save this file as hello.py.
On Mac you just give it a .py extension.
On Windows you might have to select Python
file from the dropdown that appears.
So Mac Cmd + S to save,
Windows, CTRL + S to save.
We're gonna save this as hello.py and
there we go.
There is our syntax highlighting.
And look at that.
>> Nina Zakharenko: It's a linter.
There's a red underscore here.
And it's giving us a hint that we
didn't type in something correctly,
that we have a syntax
error in our program.
Can anyone spot it?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah,
there's an extra quote.
>> Nina Zakharenko: That's right.
So now if we take out that extra quote and
we save our file,
that linting error will go away.
To run your Python code from the VS Code
terminal, you're gonna use that
command pallet that we learned
about earlier in the day and
you're going to hit Run Python File
in Terminal, or narrow it down.
And you should see the results here.
Should say, hello world,
bonjour world, hola world.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Notice that VS Code
automatically picks up the virtual
environment for us, that env environment
that we saw earlier in the class.
If we are in the right directory, so for
me, I'm gonna have cd into here.
If we wanna run our files from the
terminal outside of VS Code, if we're in
our inner virtual environment, we can
just do that with the Python command.
And then pass in the name of our
Python file and it'll run it.
Outside of the virtual environment
you'll need to specify
the correct version of python.
And if you remember from the beginning,
we checked our python version.
That's the same command
that you would use to
run your Python program
outside of the terminal.
So just a few tips here.
>> Nina Zakharenko: I'm gonna make a new
file and save it, called name.py, and
I recommend you do as well.
By saving it as a Python file first, I get
the syntax highlighting right off the bat.
So I'm gonna add this in.
I'm gonna make a new variable with
my name and then in the repo we were
able to just kind of write variables and
see the results right away.
If we run this,
we're not gonna see any output.
It's because the REPL and
running the Python programs
works a little bit differently.
So in your Python programs you have
to explicitly print things out
in order to see any output.
So once we make that change
we'll see the result right here.